[#11521] docs(glue): Add AWS Glue catalog and connector documentation (#11523)
apache/gravitino: docs/aws-glue-catalog.md

| `warehouse`              | Base storage path used as the warehouse when no explicit `location` is specified at table creation time (e.g. `s3://my-bucket/warehouse`). Table location is derived as `warehouse/database/table`. | (none) | Yes | No | 1.3.0 |
| `default-table-format`   | Default format for tables created via Gravitino's `createTable()` API. Accepted values: `iceberg`, `hive`.                                                                                                  | `hive`                   | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |
| `table-format-filter`    | Comma-separated list of table formats exposed by `listTables()` and `loadTable()`. Accepted values: `all`, `hive`, `iceberg`, `delta`, `parquet`. Use to restrict visible table types.                     | `all`                    | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |

:::note
**Authentication priority**: Static credentials (`aws-access-key-id` + `aws-secret-access-key`) take precedence over the default credential chain (environment variables, instance profile, container credentials).
:::

### Connector Configuration

> - When using Gravitino with Trino, pass additional Trino connector properties using the `trino.bypass.` prefix. For example, `trino.bypass.hive.metastore.glue.max-connections` sets `hive.metastore.glue.max-connections` in the Trino runtime.

Reviewer: Is this used to create a Glue catalog by Trino? If yes, I don't see catalog operations in the `docs/trino-connector/catalog-glue.md`

Author: No, I remove it. `trino.bypass` should in the `trino-connector` docs。

---
title: "AWS Glue catalog"
slug: /aws-glue-catalog
keywords:
  - glue
  - aws
  - metadata
license: "This software is licensed under the Apache License version 2."
---

## Introduction

> Apache Gravitino offers the capability to utilize [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a catalog for metadata management.

Reviewer: **[style]** Prefer a direct active verb over filler phrase.

```suggestion
Apache Gravitino uses [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a metadata catalog.
```

> Apache Gravitino offers the capability to utilize [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a catalog for metadata management.

Reviewer: **[style]** Prefer a direct active verb over filler phrase.

```suggestion
Apache Gravitino uses [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a metadata catalog.
```

> Apache Gravitino offers the capability to utilize [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a catalog for metadata management.

Reviewer: **[style]** Prefer a direct active verb over filler phrase.

```suggestion
Apache Gravitino uses [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a metadata catalog.
```

> Apache Gravitino offers the capability to utilize [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a catalog for metadata management.

Reviewer: **[style]** Prefer a direct active verb over filler phrase.

```suggestion
Apache Gravitino uses [AWS Glue Data Catalog](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/) as a metadata catalog.
```

> ### Requirements and limitations

Reviewer: **[style]** H3 headings use Title Case — `limitations` should be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Requirements and Limitations
```

> ### Requirements and limitations

Reviewer: **[style]** H3 headings use Title Case — `limitations` should be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Requirements and Limitations
```

> ### Requirements and limitations

Reviewer: **[style]** H3 headings use Title Case — `limitations` should be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Requirements and Limitations
```

> ### Requirements and limitations

Reviewer: **[style]** H3 headings use Title Case -- `limitations` should be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Requirements and Limitations
```

* The Glue catalog requires network access to the AWS Glue API.
* Gravitino uses the AWS SDK v2 to communicate with Glue.

:::note
The Glue catalog is case-insensitive for schema and table names. AWS Glue folds database and table names to lowercase on storage.
:::

## Catalog

> ### Catalog capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Capabilities
```

> ### Catalog capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Capabilities
```

> ### Catalog capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Capabilities
```

> ### Catalog capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` -> `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Capabilities
```

The Glue catalog supports creating, updating, and deleting databases and tables in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.

- Supports all table types stored in Glue (Hive, Iceberg, Delta, Parquet, and others) by default.
- Supports Hive-format table partitioning, bucketing, and sort orders.
- Does not support views. Glue views (tables with `TableType=VIRTUAL_VIEW`) are filtered out.

> ### Catalog properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Properties
```

> ### Catalog properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Properties
```

> ### Catalog properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Properties
```

> ### Catalog properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` -> `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Properties
```

> Besides the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration), the Glue catalog has the following properties:

Reviewer: **[broken link]** The anchor `#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration` does not exist in `gravitino-server-config.md`. The correct anchor is `#catalog-properties-configuration`.

```suggestion
For more details, see the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#catalog-properties-configuration).
```

> Besides the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration), the Glue catalog has the following properties:

Reviewer: **[broken link]** The anchor `#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration` does not exist in `gravitino-server-config.md`. The correct anchor is `#catalog-properties-configuration`.

```suggestion
For more details, see the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#catalog-properties-configuration).
```

> Besides the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration), the Glue catalog has the following properties:

Reviewer: **[broken link]** The anchor `#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration` does not exist in `gravitino-server-config.md`. The correct anchor is `#catalog-properties-configuration`.

```suggestion
For more details, see the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#catalog-properties-configuration).
```

> Besides the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration), the Glue catalog has the following properties:

Reviewer: **[broken link]** The anchor `#apache-gravitino-catalog-properties-configuration` does not exist in `gravitino-server-config.md`. The correct anchor is `#catalog-properties-configuration`.

```suggestion
For more details, see the [common catalog properties](./gravitino-server-config.md#catalog-properties-configuration).
```

| `warehouse`              | Base storage path used as the warehouse when no explicit `location` is specified at table creation time (e.g. `s3://my-bucket/warehouse`). Table location is derived as `warehouse/database/table`. | (none) | Yes | No | 1.3.0 |
| `default-table-format`   | Default format for tables created via Gravitino's `createTable()` API. Accepted values: `iceberg`, `hive`.                                                                                                  | `hive`                   | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |
| `table-format-filter`    | Comma-separated list of table formats exposed by `listTables()` and `loadTable()`. Accepted values: `all`, `hive`, `iceberg`, `delta`, `parquet`. Use to restrict visible table types.                     | `all`                    | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |

:::note
**Authentication priority**: Static credentials (`aws-access-key-id` + `aws-secret-access-key`) take precedence over the default credential chain (environment variables, instance profile, container credentials).
:::

> ### Passing connector configuration

Reviewer: **[style]** STYLE.md forbids gerund-led headings. Replace `Passing connector configuration` with a noun phrase, and apply Title Case.

```suggestion
### Connector Configuration
```

> ### Passing connector configuration

Reviewer: **[style]** STYLE.md forbids gerund-led headings. Replace `Passing connector configuration` with a noun phrase, and apply Title Case.

```suggestion
### Connector Configuration
```

> ### Passing connector configuration

Reviewer: **[style]** STYLE.md forbids gerund-led headings. Replace `Passing connector configuration` with a noun phrase, and apply Title Case.

```suggestion
### Connector Configuration
```

> ### Passing connector configuration

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Replace `Passing connector configuration` with a noun phrase, and apply Title Case.

```suggestion
### Connector Configuration
```

- When using Gravitino with Trino, pass additional Trino connector properties using the `trino.bypass.` prefix. For example, `trino.bypass.hive.metastore.glue.max-connections` sets `hive.metastore.glue.max-connections` in the Trino runtime.
- When using Gravitino with Spark, pass additional Spark connector properties using the `spark.bypass.` prefix.

> ### Catalog operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Operations
```

> ### Catalog operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Operations
```

> ### Catalog operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Operations
```

> ### Catalog operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` -> `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Catalog Operations
```

Refer to [Manage Relational Metadata Using Gravitino](./manage-relational-metadata-using-gravitino.md#catalog-operations) for more details.

## Schema

> ### Schema capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Schema Capabilities
```

> ### Schema capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Schema Capabilities
```

> ### Schema capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Schema Capabilities
```

> ### Schema capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` -> `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Schema Capabilities
```

The Glue catalog supports creating, updating, and deleting databases in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.

> ### Schema properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Schema Properties
```

> ### Schema properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Schema Properties
```

> ### Schema properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Schema Properties
```

> ### Schema properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` -> `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Schema Properties
```

The Glue catalog does not define predefined schema properties beyond `comment`. You can define your own key-value pair properties and transmit them to the underlying Glue database.

> ### Schema operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Schema Operations
```

> ### Schema operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Schema Operations
```

> ### Schema operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Schema Operations
```

> ### Schema operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` -> `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Schema Operations
```

See [Manage Relational Metadata Using Gravitino](./manage-relational-metadata-using-gravitino.md#schema-operations).

## Table

> ### Table capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Table Capabilities
```

> ### Table capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Table Capabilities
```

> ### Table capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` → `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Table Capabilities
```

> ### Table capabilities

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `capabilities` -> `Capabilities`.

```suggestion
### Table Capabilities
```

- The Glue catalog supports creating, updating, and deleting tables in the AWS Glue Data Catalog.
- All entries in the Glue `Table.parameters()` pass through Gravitino intact, so downstream tools can correctly identify the table format.
- Does not support column default value.
- Does not support NOT NULL constraints on columns.
- Does not support table indexes.

> ### Table partitioning

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `partitioning` → `Partitioning`.

```suggestion
### Table Partitioning
```

> ### Table partitioning

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `partitioning` → `Partitioning`.

```suggestion
### Table Partitioning
```

> ### Table partitioning

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `partitioning` → `Partitioning`.

```suggestion
### Table Partitioning
```

> ### Table partitioning

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `partitioning` -> `Partitioning`.

```suggestion
### Table Partitioning
```

> The Glue catalog supports [partitioned tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-PartitionedTables). Users can create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog with the specific partitioning attribute.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative per engineering voice guidelines.

```suggestion
Create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog by specifying the partitioning attribute.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [partitioned tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-PartitionedTables). Users can create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog with the specific partitioning attribute.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative per engineering voice guidelines.

```suggestion
Create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog by specifying the partitioning attribute.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [partitioned tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-PartitionedTables). Users can create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog with the specific partitioning attribute.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative per engineering voice guidelines.

```suggestion
Create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog by specifying the partitioning attribute.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [partitioned tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-PartitionedTables). Users can create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog with the specific partitioning attribute.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative.

```suggestion
Create partitioned tables in the Glue catalog by specifying the partitioning attribute.
```

The supported partitioning strategies depend on the table format:

- **Hive-format tables**: Only `Identity` partitioning is supported, because the native Glue partition model is Hive-style key=value.
- **Iceberg-format tables**: All Iceberg partition transforms are supported: `identity`, `year`, `month`, `day`, `hour`, `bucket`, and `truncate`.

:::caution
The `fieldName` specified in the partitioning attribute must be the name of a column defined in the table.
:::

> ### Table sort orders and distributions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `sort orders and distributions` → `Sort Orders and Distributions`.

```suggestion
### Table Sort Orders and Distributions
```

> ### Table sort orders and distributions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `sort orders and distributions` → `Sort Orders and Distributions`.

```suggestion
### Table Sort Orders and Distributions
```

> ### Table sort orders and distributions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `sort orders and distributions` → `Sort Orders and Distributions`.

```suggestion
### Table Sort Orders and Distributions
```

> ### Table sort orders and distributions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `sort orders and distributions` -> `Sort Orders and Distributions`.

```suggestion
### Table Sort Orders and Distributions
```

> The Glue catalog supports [bucketed sorted tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-BucketedSortedTables). Users can create bucketed sorted tables in the Glue catalog with specific `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative.

```suggestion
Create bucketed sorted tables by setting the `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [bucketed sorted tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-BucketedSortedTables). Users can create bucketed sorted tables in the Glue catalog with specific `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative.

```suggestion
Create bucketed sorted tables by setting the `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [bucketed sorted tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-BucketedSortedTables). Users can create bucketed sorted tables in the Glue catalog with specific `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative.

```suggestion
Create bucketed sorted tables by setting the `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.
```

> The Glue catalog supports [bucketed sorted tables](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/LanguageManual+DDL#LanguageManualDDL-BucketedSortedTables). Users can create bucketed sorted tables in the Glue catalog with specific `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `Users can` scaffolding; use the imperative.

```suggestion
Create bucketed sorted tables by setting the `distribution` and `sortOrders` attributes.
```

Although Gravitino supports several distribution strategies, AWS Glue inherently only supports a single distribution strategy (clustered by column). Therefore the Glue catalog only supports `Hash` distribution.

:::caution
The `fieldName` specified in the `distribution` and `sortOrders` attribute must be the name of a column defined in the table.
:::

> ### Table column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Table Column Types
```

> ### Table column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Table Column Types
```

> ### Table column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Table Column Types
```

> ### Table column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` -> `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Table Column Types
```

| `double`                  | `double`            | 1.3.0         |
| `decimal`                 | `decimal`           | 1.3.0         |
| `string`                  | `string`            | 1.3.0         |
| `char`                    | `char`              | 1.3.0         |
| `varchar`                 | `varchar`           | 1.3.0         |
| `timestamp`               | `timestamp`         | 1.3.0         |
| `date`                    | `date`              | 1.3.0         |
| `interval_year_month`     | `interval_year`     | 1.3.0         |
| `interval_day_time`       | `interval_day`      | 1.3.0         |
| `binary`                  | `binary`            | 1.3.0         |
| `array`                   | `list`              | 1.3.0         |
| `map`                     | `map`               | 1.3.0         |
| `struct`                  | `struct`            | 1.3.0         |
| `uniontype`               | `union`             | 1.3.0         |

:::info
The data types other than listed above are mapped to Gravitino **[External Type](./manage-relational-metadata-using-gravitino.md#external-type)** that represents an unresolvable data type from the Glue catalog.
:::

> ### Table properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Table Properties
```

> ### Table properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Table Properties
```

> ### Table properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` → `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Table Properties
```

> ### Table properties

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `properties` -> `Properties`.

```suggestion
### Table Properties
```

Table properties supply or set metadata for the underlying Glue tables.

> The following table lists predefined table properties for a Glue table. Additionally, you can define your own key-value pair properties and transmit them to the underlying Glue database.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `you can` scaffolding and tighten the sentence.

```suggestion
Additional key-value properties pass through to the underlying Glue database.
```

> The following table lists predefined table properties for a Glue table. Additionally, you can define your own key-value pair properties and transmit them to the underlying Glue database.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `you can` scaffolding and tighten the sentence.

```suggestion
Additional key-value properties pass through to the underlying Glue database.
```

> The following table lists predefined table properties for a Glue table. Additionally, you can define your own key-value pair properties and transmit them to the underlying Glue database.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `you can` scaffolding and tighten the sentence.

```suggestion
Additional key-value properties pass through to the underlying Glue database.
```

> The following table lists predefined table properties for a Glue table. Additionally, you can define your own key-value pair properties and transmit them to the underlying Glue database.

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop `you can` scaffolding and tighten the sentence.

```suggestion
Additional key-value properties pass through to the underlying Glue database.
```

| `table-format`          | Table format stored in Glue `Table.parameters()`. Use `ICEBERG` to create an Iceberg table. Common values: `ICEBERG`, `HIVE`.              | (none)                                                                                | No       | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |
| `metadata_location`     | Iceberg table metadata file location stored in Glue `Table.parameters()`. When set during `createTable()`, registers an existing Iceberg table rather than creating a new one. | (none)                                                               | No       | No       | No        | 1.3.0         |
| `comment`               | Used to store a table comment.                                                                                                             | (none)                                                                                | No       | Yes      | No        | 1.3.0         |

:::note

> All entries in the Glue `Table.parameters()` pass through Gravitino's API layer intact. This ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.

Reviewer: **[style]** Avoid starting a sentence with bare `This`. Use `This [noun]` with an explicit referent.

```suggestion
This passthrough ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.
```

> All entries in the Glue `Table.parameters()` pass through Gravitino's API layer intact. This ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.

Reviewer: **[style]** Avoid starting a sentence with bare `This`. Use `This [noun]` with an explicit referent.

```suggestion
This passthrough ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.
```

> All entries in the Glue `Table.parameters()` pass through Gravitino's API layer intact. This ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.

Reviewer: **[style]** Avoid starting a sentence with bare `This`. Use `This [noun]` with an explicit referent.

```suggestion
This passthrough ensures `table_type=ICEBERG`, `metadata_location=s3://...`, `spark.sql.sources.provider=delta`, and any other format indicators survive Gravitino's metadata proxy layer.
```

:::

> ### Table operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Table Operations
```

> ### Table operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Table Operations
```

> ### Table operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Table Operations
```

> ### Table operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` -> `Operations`.

```suggestion
### Table Operations
```

Refer to [Manage Relational Metadata Using Gravitino](./manage-relational-metadata-using-gravitino.md#table-operations) for more details.

> #### Alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
#### Alter Operations
```

> #### Alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
#### Alter Operations
```

> #### Alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` → `Operations`.

```suggestion
#### Alter Operations
```

> #### Alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `operations` -> `Operations`.

```suggestion
#### Alter Operations
```

| `Remove Properties`      | `Remove a table property`      | 1.3.0         |

:::caution
Hive-format table rename is not supported. AWS Glue does not provide a native rename API for tables; renaming would require recreating the table.
Iceberg-format table rename is supported.
:::

##### Alter column

| Glue Alter Operation     | Gravitino Table Update Request    | Since Version |
|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|---------------|
| `Change Column Name`     | `Rename a column`                 | 1.3.0         |
| `Change Column Type`     | `Update the type of a column`     | 1.3.0         |
| `Change Column Position` | `Update the position of a column` | 1.3.0         |
| `Change Column Comment`  | `Update the column comment`       | 1.3.0         |

##### Alter partition

The Glue catalog supports partition operations via `SupportsPartitions` for Hive-format identity-partitioned tables:

- `listPartitions()` / `listPartitionNames()`
- `getPartition(partitionName)`
- `addPartition(partition)`
- `dropPartition(partitionName)`

:::caution
Only `IdentityPartition` is supported because the Glue partition model is Hive-style key=value.
:::

> ## Iceberg table support

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop the filler `support` suffix (STYLE.md: "Drop the filler 'Support' suffix when it adds no meaning beyond 'we support X'"). Also fix Title Case.

```suggestion
## Iceberg Tables
```

> ## Iceberg table support

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop the filler `support` suffix (STYLE.md: "Drop the filler 'Support' suffix when it adds no meaning beyond 'we support X'"). Also fix Title Case.

```suggestion
## Iceberg Tables
```

> ## Iceberg table support

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop the filler `support` suffix (STYLE.md: "Drop the filler 'Support' suffix when it adds no meaning beyond 'we support X'"). Also fix Title Case.

```suggestion
## Iceberg Tables
```

> ## Iceberg table support

Reviewer: **[style]** Drop the filler `support` suffix. Also fix Title Case.

```suggestion
## Iceberg Tables
```

The Glue catalog supports creating and managing Iceberg-format tables through the Apache Iceberg SDK's `GlueCatalog`. When an Iceberg table is created, Gravitino writes the `metadata.json` file to S3 and registers the table in Glue with the correct `metadata_location` parameter, making it usable by Trino (Lakehouse connector), Spark, and other Iceberg-native query engines.

> ### Creating an Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Create an Iceberg Table
```

> ### Creating an Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Create an Iceberg Table
```

> ### Creating an Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Create an Iceberg Table
```

> ### Creating an Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Create an Iceberg Table
```

Set `table-format=ICEBERG` in the table properties, or configure `default-table-format=iceberg` on the catalog to make all tables Iceberg by default.

The `warehouse` catalog property must be configured. The table location is derived as `warehouse/database/table` when no explicit `location` is specified.

> ### Registering an existing Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Register an Existing Iceberg Table
```

> ### Registering an existing Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Register an Existing Iceberg Table
```

> ### Registering an existing Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Register an Existing Iceberg Table
```

> ### Registering an existing Iceberg table

Reviewer: **[style]** Gerund-led headings are forbidden. Use the imperative, and fix Title Case.

```suggestion
### Register an Existing Iceberg Table
```

To register an Iceberg table that already exists in S3, set `metadata_location` to the path of the existing `metadata.json` file during `createTable()`. In this mode, Gravitino registers the table in Glue without creating new metadata.

> ### Iceberg column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Column Types
```

> ### Iceberg column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Column Types
```

> ### Iceberg column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` → `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Column Types
```

> ### Iceberg column types

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `column types` -> `Column Types`.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Column Types
```

| `char`                   | `string`              | Iceberg has no variable-length char types           |
| `date`                   | `date`                |                                                     |
| `time(6)`                | `time`                | Only microsecond precision (6) is supported         |
| `timestamp(6)`           | `timestamp`           | Only microsecond precision (6) is supported         |
| `timestamptz(6)`         | `timestamptz`         | Only microsecond precision (6) is supported         |
| `binary`                 | `binary`              |                                                     |
| `fixed(n)`               | `binary`              | Mapped to variable-length binary                    |
| `uuid`                   | `uuid`                |                                                     |
| `list`                   | `list`                |                                                     |
| `map`                    | `map`                 |                                                     |
| `struct`                 | `struct`              |                                                     |

> ### Iceberg table alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: all content words must be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Table Alter Operations
```

> ### Iceberg table alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: all content words must be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Table Alter Operations
```

> ### Iceberg table alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: all content words must be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Table Alter Operations
```

> ### Iceberg table alter operations

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: all content words must be capitalized.

```suggestion
### Iceberg Table Alter Operations
```

For Iceberg tables, the following alter operations are supported:

| Operation                       | Gravitino Table Update Request    |
|---------------------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Add column                      | `Add a column`                    |
| Delete column                   | `Delete a column`                 |
| Rename column                   | `Rename a column`                 |
| Update column type              | `Update the type of a column`     |
| Update column comment           | `Update the column comment`       |
| Update column nullability       | `Update column nullability`       |
| Set table property              | `Set a table property`            |
| Remove table property           | `Remove a table property`         |

:::caution
Schema changes and property changes are committed in two separate Iceberg transactions. If the schema commit succeeds but the property commit fails, the table is left in a partially altered state.
:::

:::caution
Nested column operations (add, delete, rename, type update) are not supported for Iceberg tables via this catalog.
:::

## Security

> ### AWS IAM permissions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `permissions` → `Permissions`.

```suggestion
### AWS IAM Permissions
```

> ### AWS IAM permissions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `permissions` → `Permissions`.

```suggestion
### AWS IAM Permissions
```

> ### AWS IAM permissions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `permissions` → `Permissions`.

```suggestion
### AWS IAM Permissions
```

> ### AWS IAM permissions

Reviewer: **[style]** Title Case: `permissions` -> `Permissions`.

```suggestion
### AWS IAM Permissions
```
